1 - Presentation

Hello, i am Facundo Frau, a civil engineer from Argentina who wants to learn to code.
I started this course in 2020 and this is my final project.

The project is called blood alcohol calculator, is a Python scripts that you can use to estimate
and calculate how high will be the alcohol concentrationin your body after drinking different beverages.
The project does not have a GUI, but it generates graphs that show the decreasing rate with matplotlib.
It has a SQL database that you can use to register your username and personal data for future calculations.

2 - Project schema

This project is written in Python 3 (version 3.9) at the moment, also it uses matplotlib for the graphics.
The project consists in 5 files: A drinks txt which has all the available drinks stored with alcohol % in volume
A database.db which is a SQL database file, used for the people who want to register for later use.
Three python files:

bac_calculator.py contains all the main logic and options available for the user, this file imports everything that needs from
both other files: calculations and helpers.

the calculations.py contains functions that take drink type, volume and personal data and apply the Widmark Formula

the helpers.py This file has all the complementary functions that supports the main files. Logging in,
printing the menu, registering the user in the database, loading the drinks,
connecting with SQL, plotting the results and asking for user data.

3 - How it works

Now i am going to show how my project works, this is the main menu, here you can choose between different options.
The first one is if you don't want to enter personal data like height, gender of birth or weight. You select the drink,
how much of that drink pure you took and will show 2 graphs.

The second options is for calculating with your personal data but without storing it in the database, as a one-time use.
When you start will ask you for your gender, height, weight and then repeats the drink calculations seen in first part.

The third option is similar to the second one in the output, but requires that you have had registered before using it.
It will prompt for your username and query the database, if not found print an error.

With the fourth option you can register yourself with a unique username and your data, if the username is already registered,
will print an error.

